---
title: "A 181.8dB FoMs Zoom Capacitance-to-Digital Converter with kT/C Noise Cancellation and Dead Band Operation"
collection: publications
permalink: 
excerpt: 'Zilong Shen, Jiajun Tang, Haoyang Luo, Zhongyi Wu, Zongnan Wang, Xing Zhang, Xiyuan Tang, Yuan Wang'
date: 2024-4-23
venue: 'IEEE Custom Integrated Circuits Conference'
slidesurl: 
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10529047/'
citation: 
---

This paper presents a zoomed CDC with a 2nd-order TD−ΔΣ loop. It supports single-shot measurement by adopting incremental zoom architecture with a one-time sampling technique. Compared to prior TD−ΔΣ CDCs, it extends the TD−ΔΣ to 2nd-order with a Gm−RC stage (Gm−C integrator with a series-connected R), greatly improving quantization resolution. While both integrators operate in continuous time, instead of directly cascading them, dead band operations are adopted, allowing the original CT loop to operate in the DT fashion. In contrast to classic high-order CT−ΔΣMs, it omits the complicated ELD compensation, which requires additional DACs and summing operations. Thus, better power and area efficiencies can be achieved. In addition, the Gm−RC offers an intrinsic feedforward path that ensures system stability over a wide capacitance sensing range. To break the sampling noise limit, the kT/C noise cancellation scheme with a duty-cycled FIA is designed. It provides high resolution while still ensuring great energy efficiency. Combining all these merits, the proposed CDC realizes a 119-aF sensing resolution while dissipating only 178pJ per conversion with a short measurement time of 5.3us. It realizes a state-of-the-art FoMs of 181.8dB with a small area of 0.06 mm2.
